Blog Post Assignment
Jason Lefler (leflerja)
Class 12 – February 13, 2014

Dr. Richard Enbody of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering was the guest 
speaker for this class. His research focuses on computer architecture and security, his 
school web page can be found at: http://www.cse.msu.edu/~enbody/

OWASP (The Open Web Application Security Project). He recommended it and briefly went 
over the topics it covers. He said it’s a good site for anyone interested in computer 
security.

He then transitions into the slides by stating that he’s interested in robbing banks. You 
can’t learn defense without learning offense, so let’s look at some attacks. First, an 
observation: people rob stuff off the Internet because that’s where the money is.

How to Rob a Bank

Don’t go after the bank. Go after the weakest link. Go after individual machines. Get 
peoples’ account number and password from their web browser. A browser is how people 
access the Internet, eventually they’ll use it to log into their bank. He doesn’t want 
our account number and passwords because we don’t have much money. You don’t go after a 
bank or big corporation directly because they have large security staves. Small 
businesses and churches make better targets. Religious sites are the most common 
for malware due to 2 things: a high level of trust and a low level of computer security 
knowledge. Small companies are targeted because they can go through million of dollars 
and have small IT departments. One approach would be to get a job as a janitor of a 
company, since they have all the keys and have access to all the rooms. Of course they 
will have seen you, and you have to physically go there. That’s where the Internet comes 
in.

Social Engineering

Try a social engineering attack. What employee should you go after? One answer: the 
receptionist, they have an Internet connection and a low level of security knowledge. 
Send him or her a video with a cute puppy and you’re in. The goal of social engineering 
is to get people to make one mistake, just one click and you’re in.

Man-in-the-Middle

Now he focuses on user land attacks. This refers to working in the user space, not down 
at the OS level. One option: the man-in-the-browser attack, which is a subset of the 
man-in-the-middle (MIM) attack. The goal of a MIM attack is to set up your computer 
between the bank and the user attempting to log in. How do people defend against this 
attack? With certificates. The browser automatically checks a bank’s certificate, 
verifying the bank’s web site. Who manages the certificates? Where do they come from? A 
company. The government doesn’t handle it because of the lack of trust. Browsers allow 
users to identify the companies they trust for certificates. Certificates can be spoofed, 
like the flame spoofing of a Microsoft certificate in the Middle East (which went 
unnoticed for around a decade). 

Man-in-the-Browser

The man-in-the-browser attack is the most common attack of this kind. Password logons are 
just encrypted forms. So how do we see the encrypted information without knowing the key? 
Get it before it’s encrypted from inside the browser. This is a form grabbing attack. 
There are no defenses against this attack. 

How do you get inside the browser for this? A web-inject. Before the browser page is 
rendered, add more fields. This happens only to specific pages by manipulating the html. 
How do you get into the browser and onto the computer? Send a cute puppy video that runs 
malicious code when watched. Clicking on stuff is dangerous, don’t do it. 

Another possibility is through ads on web sites. An ad is just an iFrame, which runs 
JavaScript. The JavaScript can silently send the user to a bad page; it loads a page into 
a window of 1 pixel X 1 pixel. A BEP (browser exploit pack) is waiting on the bad page. 
The BEP identifies the browser, version, ad-ons, and OS. Then it looks at a table for a 
customized exploit for that specific setup. It then loads stuff on your computer; you 
don’t even have to click the ad. It rarely works, thankfully. Anyone can rent BEPs and 
machines on the Internet, though they are expensive.

Now that you’re on the computer, how do you get on the browser? Hooks, they are used by 
Microsoft to update your computer while you’re using it. Malware uses the hooks to get 
into the browsers, specifically the function that runs when you hit enter to post the 
encrypted form. There are only a couple of functions you can hook, but they are enough. 
What are our protections? Keep your browser updated is number one. NoScript for Firefox 
is nice; it doesn’t let JavaScript run. None of this stuff works if JavaScripts cannot be 
run.

Questions

Someone asked if 2-factor authentication could stop these types of attacks. It makes it 
considerably more difficult to break security. 2-factor helps the bank figure out you the 
user is, but it may not stop MIM attacks. Banks started asking questions instead of 
implementing 2-factor authentication. He recommended using ridiculous answers to these 
questions, not answers that others could figure out. 2-factor authentication should not 
be confused with 2-way authentication. 2-way authentication helps the user and the bank 
authenticate each other. Someone asked if online gaming systems were more secure. The 
answer is yes because there is no money to steal, so no one cares enough to break in.

Dr. Enbody received a round of applause at the end of class, something Titus has yet to 
receive.
