Blog Post Assignment
Jason Lefler (leflerja)
Class 4 – January 16, 2014

The Day 4 schedule, located at http://msu-web-dev.readthedocs.org/en/latest/day4.html:

0.	For class, read http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_Web. Maybe also check out 
	http://arxiv.org/pdf/1312.6122v1.pdf.
1.	Quiz and discussion.
2.	Code review HOWTO:
	0.	Check out and run/review; add comments and/or fix.
	1.	Commit your comments.
	2.	Push to branch ‘hw1-review’ on your own fork, and submit pull requests to 
		original repository.
3.	Do a code review with regard to the following issues.
	0.	Does it run?
	1.	Spaces rather than tabs.
	2.	Spaces after # in comments.
	3.	Properly spelled variable names.
4.	hw2 – review and discuss.

One open question is why Titus starts his lists with 0 instead of 1.

The Deep Web

The Deep Web refers to the World Wide Web content that is not part of the Surface Web, 
which is indexed by conventional search engines. Some brave souls have begun to access 
the Deep Web as it may contain a significant amount of criminal activity.

Shadow Network Paper

This is an academic paper written by people at the University of Vermont and the MITRE 
Corporation. The paper discusses the creation of models through Symbolic Regression to 
better understand the flow of information in a network. I only read the abstract as it 
was preceded in the schedule with “[m]aybe also check out.” We did not end up discussing 
the paper.

Quiz

Titus asked if anyone had ideas for a more obnoxious background on the quiz page. It was 
red with flowers. We had a short discussion about the Deep Web reading and went over the 
quiz. JavaScript does dynamic content generation, which is why it can add to the Deep 
Web. Titus whips up fear of Google in the class by describing how they watch us to index 
their search engine. Titus warns us that Google, Amazon, or some other corporation will 
develop AI at some point… he clearly wanted us to fear for our future. He then said that 
the NSA indexes almost everything, to them the Deep Web is very small. Titus is clearly 
one of those radical professors we’ve all been warned about.

Code Review

We wrote our GitHub ids on index cards. He wants to give us a link to devops.com. He said 
we should limit our lines to 80 characters as a rule of thumb.

When submitting a pull request, select the person’s id, not Titus’, and select master as 
the base. He added the following link for general Python code thoughts: 
http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/

hw2

The second homework will be fixing our code. He said that we’d be graded on whether or 
not we fixed our code, not the errors that were initially there.

He let us leave 5 minutes early, hooray!
